# A-Data-Driven-Approach-to-Automated-Analysis-of-Cyber-Threat-Intelligence

Contact: 
Umara Noor
PhD Student
Department of Computing, School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, 
National University of Sciences and Technology
13phdunoor@seecs.edu.pk

A Data-Driven Approach to Automated Analysis of Cyber Threat Intelligence
According to a recent survey by Gemalto, in the year 2018, approximately 4.5 billion records were breached globally resulting in an economic loss of 608 billion. Compromise of unauthorized records via cyber-attacks continue to be the biggest cause of these breaches. It is ironic, that while adversaries do occasionally enhance their exploit kits and malware tools the underlying attack patterns have remained the same over the course of history. Yet these adversaries continue to succeed in thwarting the efforts of security vendors and incidence response teams owing to the power of automation, the ease of access to computing and network resources, and an abundance of target organizations that are custodians of private consumer data. To promote a more proactive security posture in organizations the U.S. Congress has enacted the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (CISA) into law in 2015. According to this law, the victim organizations of a cyber-data breach incident must share details of a cyber-data breach incident with all stakeholders. The DHS together with the industry is promoting the use of structured Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) sharing formats such as STIX and OpenIOC. These formats allow sharing of threats at different levels of abstraction, ranging from a high-level attack pattern to low-level threat artifacts such as IPs, domains, and hashes. The hope is that by promoting this culture of sharing, machines would be able to consume this threat information and mount a proactive defense against adversaries automatically. 
However, the problems with current approaches are many-fold. Due to a lack of threat authoring tools, in a majority of cases, CTI standards are not properly followed in describing the context and evidence of the data breach incidents. A common practice is to share tactical attack artifacts, due to which it becomes difficult to identify the kind of cyber threat in a network. The reason being that these artifacts can be easily modified and disguised resulting in a deceptive and biased threat investigation. To investigate cyber threats effectively, it is necessary to identify them based on the tactical adversary's attack patterns (i.e. Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP), software tools and malware) employed in different phases of the cyber kill-chain model. Currently, the process of identifying the tactical adversary's attack patterns is manual and time-consuming as it requires a detailed forensic investigation of the victim network and all other resources depending on the knowledge and expertise of the security analyst. In the rare case that tactical attack patterns are reported, the format is highly textual and unstructured typically taking the form of lengthy data breach investigation reports prepared by security vendors only for human consumption, which cannot be directly interpreted by the machines to investigate a threat incident. Several cybersecurity vendors are now offering a variety of CTI services and capabilities to their consumers. Due to the wide variety in the CTI service offerings by different providers, it is difficult for the security experts to decide which service is most suitable according to their security program requirements. Current approaches for ranking CTI services are based on a limited set of selection criteria without considering consumer's security program relevance and requirements.
Cyber adversaries use common tactical attack patterns in their attacks that evolve less frequently as compared to the technical attack artifacts. Due to this reason, if tactical adversary attack patterns reported in CTI reports are identified in a network, then cyber data breach incidents can be effectively investigated, attributed, and proactively defended. The main objective of the research is to motivate the development and usage of a common and structured vocabulary for extracting adversary’s attack patterns in CTI documents and their effective utilization in proactive defense and investigation using machine-learning techniques.
The solutions proposed as a result of aforementioned motive are grouped under four frameworks described in the following research papers. 
a)	Umara Noor, Zahid Anwar, Asad Waqar Malik, Sharifullah Khan, Shahzad Saleem, “A machine learning approach to diagnose cyber threats based on semantic analysis of adversarys attack patterns in threat intelligence repositories,  Elsevier Future Generation Computer Systems, Vol. 95, pp. 467-487, 2019. (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2019.01.022)
b)	Umara Noor, Zahid Anwar, Tehmina Amjad, Kim Kwang Raymond Choo, “A Machine Learning based FinTech Cyber Threat Attribution Framework using High-Level Indicators of Compromise”, Elsevier Future Generation Computer Systems, Vol. 96, pp. 227-242, 2019. (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2019.02.013)
c)	Umara Noor, Zahid Anwar, Jörn Altmann and Zahid Rashid, “Consumer-Oriented Ranking of Cyber Threat Intelligence Service Providers”, Electronic Commerce Research and Applications, Elsevier. 
d)	Umara Noor, Zahid Anwar, Zahid Rashid, “An Association Rule Mining-Based Framework for Profiling Regularities in Tactics Techniques and Procedures of Cyber Threat Actors”, In International Conference on Smart Computing and Electronic Enterprise, (IEEE ICSCEE), July 11-12, 2018, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (DOI: 10.1109/ICSCEE.2018.8538379)
e)	Zahid Rashid, Umara Noor, Jörn Altmann, “Network Externalities in Cybersecurity Information Sharing Ecosystems” In 15th International Conference on Economics of Grids, Clouds, Systems, and Services GECON 2018, Springer LNCS, September 18-20, Pisa, Italy (DOI https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-13342-9_10)
The first solution is a novel machine learning-based framework that identifies cyber threats based on observed attack patterns. The framework semantically relates threats and TTP extracted from well-known threat sources with associated detection mechanisms to form a semantic network. This network is then used to determine threat occurrences by forming probabilistic relationship between threat and TTP. The framework is trained using a TTP taxonomy dataset and the performance is evaluated with threat artifacts reported in threat reports. The second solution is a cyber threat attribution framework that defines the problem of cyber threat actor profiling and attribution in a new context based on the current threat landscape of the proliferation of advanced persistent threats and nation-state attacks. The framework automates the profiling process using the distributional semantics technique of Natural Language Processing by extracting tactical attack patterns from publicly available incident reports. These profiles are used to train machine learning classifiers to attribute unknown cyber adversaries. The third solution identifies prevalent tactical attack patterns and finds interesting associations among them. The fourth solution defines an extensive set of selection criteria to rank CTI service providers. The proposed framework assign weights to selection criteria based on consumer's requirements and ranks CTI services offered by different cybersecurity companies based on their offered service specifications. 
In order to promote research in this area we are happy to release our datasets and prototypes to the community. However, to avoid this dataset from being misused, we feel the need to have some sort of conditions in place to verify user identity or require necessary justification. For that purpose, if you are interested in getting access to our dataset, please read the following instructions carefully -- before using it in your research work.
Dataset and Prototype Usage and Copyright Policy:
(1) If you are currently in academia: 
If you are a research student or a faculty member and you want to use our datasets or prototypes in your papers or articles, please inform us via an email from your university's email account. In the email, please briefly introduce yourself (e.g., name and title -- in case we do not know each other). If you are using our datasets and prototypes then you must cite our research papers. 
 (2) If you are currently in industry (including research labs):
(a) Please send us an email from your company's email account. In the email, please briefly introduce yourself (e.g., name and title -- in case we do not know each other) and your company.
(b) In the email, please attach a justification letter (in PDF format) in official letterhead. The justification letter needs to acknowledge the above cited article and state clearly the reasons why the dataset is being requested. 
We emphasize that we will ignore emails that do not follow the above instructions. Again, you are not allowed to share any samples in our dataset to others without our permission. 
